# Quantitative-Risk-Analysis-of-the-FTSE-MIB-index, Italy's main equity index
This repository contains a financial analysis in python and R of the FTSEMIB. From raw data I conduct an historical risk analysis, calculate key financial metrics (Annualized Returns, Annualized Volatility, Drawdowns, Calmar Ratio, Sharpe Ratio, Sortino Ratios, Risk-Return ratio), non-normality metrics (Skewness/Kurtosis), and compare three VaR models: Historic, Gaussian, and the modified Cornish-Fisher method. I also use the EURIBOR 1 month rates to extract the risk free rate to procede in the caluclations where it is necessary. Inside the file there are clear explainations of the metrics, concepts and formulas that i am using, every results has a comment on what it means for the equity index and its historical performance. The three different VaR calcualtion approaches are all done on the 5% level. The project is developed entirely in Python using standard libraries: Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. The notebook includes key visualizations such as the tracking of the Wealth Index, the comparison between the distribution of returns and the normal curve, and a bar chart highlighting the divergence between the three VaR estimates. Although the data and analysis are described as referring to the FTSEMIB, they actually cover also the earlier MIB 30 index from  2003 to the migration to FTSEMIB index on 2009.

Feedback and Contributions: I welcome any feedback to improve this analysis. If you find any conceptual, typographical, or code related errors (such as data inconsistencies, logical flaws, or misapplications of financial formulas or strange results), please contact me or open an issue on this repository. Your input is highly valued!
